you have to deliver a presentation in
one week and you're panicking because
you haven't even started yet don't worry
in this video I am going to break down
the exact way you can utilize 7even days
to ensure that you can deliver a great
speech or presentation in just one week
day one this is where you're going to
determine the why there's a few
different aspects to why you're giving a
speech first off is it for a wedding is
it for a work presentation
what is that why or what is that purpose
of the speech but then the bigger why
you want to discover is why should the
audience care as you're building your
presentation you should think about what
the audience will take away or what you
want them to walk away from that
presentation learning and this can take
some time to think up so day one I only
want you to worry about that question
why are you doing the speech why why
should your audience care and what is
the biggest takeaway you want them to
gain from your speech you can also start
brainstorming some random ideas if
there's ideas in mind about rough
structure you can do that but don't
worry about finalizing your speech on
day one this is just to define the why
and get the brain dump of information on
a piece of paper day two this is where
you're going to research and start to
build your speech if you're doing a work
presentation you often want to have
research or data that will back up the
points that you're making in the speech
so this is a good opportunity to go in
and begin researching the data that
you're going to need to reinforce your
idea and if it's a personal story or
speech that you're giving for let's say
a wedding you may want to start to
research or think of good personal
stories and that is the beauty of using
a personal story when you deliver a
presentation because you don't have to
write that down word for word that is
something that you know well already and
so if you can fit a few of your own
personal stories into a speech it's
going to help you build that speech so
much quicker if you're using a
PowerPoint slide this is where you can
start to build the rough version of what
the PowerPoint is going to look like and
if you're not using a PowerPoint you can
start to jot down some bullet points
of things you're going to talk about I
want you to avoid writing out the entire
speech word for word because you're on a
short time frame and I want you to
practice without using too many notes
because that's going to make for a much
better speech but you can start to get
down these ideas in bullet point form
day three this is where you're going to
complete the research phase and any
stories that you've brought into your
speech and you're really going to focus
on finalizing the building process of
that presentation so you're going to
focus on getting that PowerPoint totally
complete if it's bullet point notes
you're including for a speech without
PowerPoint slides you're going to have
those finalized in the order that you
want by the end of day three you should
more or less have your speech your
presentation fully thought out and a
couple bonus points here great speeches
usually have a couple key themes that
they hang around so first off you have
your introduction and this should be
powerful something that draws the
audience in perhaps you can jump right
into a story you can ask a powerful
question or you can give a powerful
statement those are my favorite
introductions from there you often have
a few different points that reinforce
your main idea so if you're talking
about why social media is an effective
form of marketing perhaps your speech is
three reasons social media is an
effective form of marketing and so
you're going to have the introduction
point1 then point 2 then 3 and then the
conclusion I find odd numbers work the
best so whether that's three tips or
five tips or seven tips and by having
these it is a quick way for you to
easily remember the structure of your
speech when you're delivering it if it's
for a wedding speech and by the way I
have other videos such as how to deliver
a best man speech which is going to be
popping up right now so check out that
more detailed video on creating a
wedding speech but in that situation
you're going to have a similar structure
you'll have your introduction then
perhaps you can jump into a personal
story about the bride or the groom then
you can talk about all the great
attributes they have then you can talk
about their partner who they're marrying
and then a conclusion so both the work
presentation example and the personal
wedding speech both had five key points
to them introduction then three points
that reinforce the idea and then a
conclusion this is a simple way to build
a speech especially when you're doing so
on a tight time frame day four this is
where you're going to make the final
revisions to your speech really focusing
on the introduction and the conclusion
that you've really dialed those in
because the likelihood is an audience
will remember the first thing you say
and the last thing you say so you want
these to stick with the audience once
you've gone through that final revision
and tweak and gone over your speech so
it's feeling very comfortable I want you
to practice for the first time don't
worry if you make mistakes it's your
first time doing it but I want you to
practice just as though you would
actually deliver the speech and if you
can do so without referencing notes or
using very limited notes that is the
ideal outcome but don't beat yourself up
if you make many mistakes on day four
because you're going to have much more
practice in the rest of the week this
brings me to day five and this day is
really focused on practicing I want you
to practice a minimum of three times the
first two times don't change anything
about your speech just go through
through the process of practicing it
with what you've already built in the
first four days and then after that
second practice session if there was
something that just doesn't seem right
maybe the timing is too long or Too
Short or that introduction is a little
bit clunky or one of your points isn't
strong and as you were presenting you
thought okay Point number two could be a
little bit better now I want you to make
a final revision after this I'm oping
you don't touch the content of your
speech this is your last chance to
really refine the speech a final time
and after you're done that I want you to
end day five with one more practice
session with that hopefully completely
polished speech that you will eventually
give on day seven day six is your
practice day I want no other pressure on
you than simply practicing your speech
and by this time hope hopefully you're
getting a pretty strong familiarity with
the structure and you can start to focus
on little things like body language are
there certain opportunities when you can
make big body language signals that are
going to bring the crowd in and draw
them into what you're talking about or
maybe there's a chance to adjust your
vocal tone and variety if you're talking
about something really exciting and all
of these things were moving past you
really quickly your voice can replicate
that
or if you're talking about something a
little more
emotional you can bring your voice down
and practice getting softer to have an
equal
impact this is the day where you're
simply practicing the speech you're
building your confidence that you'll be
able to deliver it and you're tweaking
the actual presentation skills that
you're going to bring to the table day
six is also a good opportunity to record
yourself giving the speech so you can
watch it back or if you have a family
member or a friend who you can practice
in front of and ask them to give you
some subtle feedback that is a good idea
as well but the strong caveat here is
don't ask them to give you too much
feedback because if they say this speech
is horrible you need to start from
scratch well you're running out of time
you want a couple maybe subtle changes
you can make or little subtle advice
but you don't want to completely start
from scratch you don't have time for
that so hopefully find someone who will
be honest but also encouraging because
day six is as much about building your
own confidence as anything so that
brings you to the final day day seven
the day you will actually be delivering
your presentation the biggest thing for
this day is to focus on yourself do you
have a morning routine that you like to
do do you typically get exercise well if
that's you go get some exercise that day
stretch out get the heart going get your
breathing under control if you meditate
then meditate ensure that you've eaten a
healthy meal that you're feeling good
now is not the time to risk it with some
crazy dish you that usually gives you
stomach issues you want to be feeling
your best for the actual speech and that
morning I want you to practice one final
time that way you've gone through the
speech but you're not over practicing
hopefully by this point it is dialed and
you know this speech very well
especially considering you only started
building it a week ago and then when
you're about to take the stage stand up
beforehand do some breathing exercises
such as box breathing to calm your
nerves bring water up with you so that
your mouth doesn't get dry and and enjoy
it remember to smile remember to make
eye contact with the audience and just
know that you have done an incredible
job preparing what you didn't have
anything written down to a hopefully
well-crafted speech by the end of this
week I hope this video on how to build a
speech in one week was helpful to you
let me know what your biggest takeaway
was in the comments and please please
please make sure that you subscribe to
my channel this is the best way to
support what I do because it's my goal
to make you a better public speaker a
more impactful
communicator and ensure that you check
out this video which is popping up on
your screen right now this is the one I
mentioned before about how to create a
great best man speech by the way I also
have a made of honor speech video on my
YouTube channel as well so check both
those out thank you for watching this
one I'll catch you on the next video